                  Data Types, Casting, and  Keywords In Java 
                          Assignment Questions Solution
1.What are Primitive Data Types in Java?
Ans:Primitive Data Types in Java is a basic data type provided by java
    programming language which is used for imforming compiler and JVM
	what type of data is stored into the variable and it is sub-divided 
	int 8 group which are as
	listed below:
	
	Primitive DataType        Memory Required
	
	1.byte                         1 byte=8 bits
	2.short                        2 byte=16 bits
	3.integer                      4 byte=32 bits
	4.long                         8 byte=64 bits
	5.char                         2 byte=16 bits
	6.float                        4 byte=32 bits
	7.double                       8 byte=64 bits
	8.boolean                      Depends on OS(but commonly 1 byte)

2.What are the Identifiers in Java?
Ans:Identifiers in Java is the name given to a class ,variable,
    package,method,label or interface and allow the programmer to refer to 
	the specific item from any place in java.
	
	Types of Identifier                 Example
	
	1.Class Identifier                 class test{}
	2.Variable Identifier              int age=20;
	3.Package Identifier               package student;
	4.Method Identifier                void calculateSum();
	5.Interface Identifier             interface student{};
	
3.What is final class in Java?
Ans:A final class in Java is a concept of object-oriented programming
    where a class is declared using the "final" keyword. This type of 
    class cannot be extended or inherited by other classes, making it 
	inflexible.
	We use "final" keyword infront of a class to make that class as
	final class.A final class in Java cannot be inherited or extended, meaning 
	that no subclass can be created from it. 
	In other words, there is no subclass you can find which will inherit the 
	final class in Java.If a class is complete in nature then we can make it
	a final class which tells us that it can’t be an abstract class.
    We use final class for the following purposes:
    1.To prevent Inheritance
    2.To create immutable classes	
	
4.What are the two ways to make a class final?
Ans:The two ways to make a class final are as listed below:

    1.Using "final" keyword
	
	We use "final" keyword infront of a class to make that class as
	final class.A final class in Java cannot be inherited or extended,
	meaning that no subclass can be created from it.
	Example:
	     final class student{
		 //methods and data
		 }
	2.Using the sealed concept
	
	Some programming languages, like Kotlin and C#, provide a feature 
	called sealed classes, which is an alternative to the final keyword.
	Sealed classes restrict the inheritance hierarchy by allowing subclasses
	only within a specific package or file.
	Example:
	sealed class SealedClass {
       // sealed class members and methods
    }
5.Can we create an instance of final class in another class?
Ans:Yes we create an instance of final class in another class but  Only affect 
   of final on class is that class cannot be extended.
   Example: String is a final class, but in almost every code you make an object
   of it. But we can not extend the String class.
   
6.What is volatile keyword used for?
Ans:The volatile keyword in Java is used to indicate that a variable's value may
    be modified by multiple threads simultaneously. It ensures that the variable 
    is always read from and written to the main memory, rather than from thread
    specific caches, ensuring visibility across threads.
   
7.What is the use of Transient Keyword?
Ans:The transient keyword in Java is used to indicate that a field in a class 
    should not be serialized. Serialization is the process of converting an object's
    state into a byte stream so that it can be easily saved to a file or transmitted
    over a network. When a field is marked as transient, it means that the field's
    value will not be included in the serialized form of the object.
	
8.What are type of casting?
Ans:The process of converting one primitive data type into the another is known as
    "TypeCasting".
    There are two type of casting which as listed below:
    1.Implicit TypeCasting
	
	  In this type of typecasting ,we convert a smaller primitive data type into the 
	  larger one.
	  It is done by compiler of java.It is also known as "Widening Typecasting"as 
	  lower data are stored into the higher one.
	  
	  Flow of Conversion
	  byte -> short -> char -> int -> long -> float -> double
	  
	2.Explicit TypeCasting
	
	  The process of converting data of higher primitive data type into the lower 
	  one is known as "Explicit TypeCasting".In this type of typecasting ,there is 
	  loss of data happens.
	  It is done by the programmer explicitly.
	  Since we are narrowing the size of data type that's why it is also known as
	  "Narrowing TypeCasting".

9.What is boxing and unboxing?
Ans:The automatic conversion of primitive data types into its equivalent Wrapper 
   type is known as "Autoboxing".Autoboxing is the process of converting a primitive 
   value to a corresponding reference object, such as int to Integer, float to Float
   ,boolean to Boolean ,etc.
   For example:
   If you have a list of integers, you can use autoboxing to add primitive values
   to the list.
   The automatic conversion of wrapper class type into corresponding primitive type
   is known as "Unboxing". Unboxing is the process of converting a reference object 
   to a corresponding primitive value, such as Integer to int. 
   For example:
   If you have a list of integers, you can use unboxing to get primitive values 
   from the list.
   Autoboxing and unboxing are features that allow the compiler to automatically
   convert between primitive and reference types, without using explicit cast 
   operators.

10.What is differen between keywords, identifiers and literals in java?
Ans: Keywords:

     =>Keywords are reserved words in the Java language.
     =>They have a specific and predefined meaning in context of language's syntax.
      Examples: class, public, if, else, int, etc.
	  
     Identifiers:
	 
 	 =>Identifiers are names given to various program elements such as classes,
	 methods, variables, etc.
     =>They are user-defined and follow certain rules, such as starting with a
	 letter, being case-sensitive, etc.
     Examples: variableName, methodName, ClassName, etc.
	 
     Literals:
	 
	 =>Literals are representation of fixed values in the source code.
     =>They directly represent values without requiring computation.
     Examples: 42 (integer literal), 'A' (character literal), "Hello" 
	 (string literal),3.14 (floating-point literal), etc.